Coding for Contracts:

CommonAccord can make any document that you might want.  It can make them efficiently.  Our focus is contract agreements, since there are a lot of them, and they should be uniform, differing only where there is a difference intended.

To do this, we build them from common parts, connecting the parts together in a standard way, like Lego.  You are always free to rework, and it is easier than with Lego because you don't have to take apart the existing work.  Just extend it by overriding.  Since most uses of documents are via a browser, and HTML is the native language of browsers, that is what we use and you will learn.   

So, to the substance of contracts.  

All contracts should have the following Divisions ("Div", borrowing from HTML).  The divisions are expressed here <a ...>Agt-Form-CmA/00/0.md</a>.  Roughly, a Head, Among (Parties), Why, This, Sec(tions), Sign, Annex. If you prefer a different order, then you can of course make it and continue to use all the materials we have created for this order. 

The Parties section lists the number of parties and provides a place for full identification of them.  Name, address, type of person, person with signing authority, etc. These are fulfilled automatically be referencing the party <a href...>Example of parties</a>

Why is the "Recitals" or "Wherefore" part of the agreement.

"This" is the little statement that the Parties (listed) enter into a contract on the tems of the Sec(tion)s.  These parts, along with the signature part (By.) and Annex, are the bread of the sandwich.   

The meat (cheese or tofu)  of the sandwich is of course Sec, for "sections."  

As a first approximation, we propose that all sections of a contract be organized into four top level sections:

sec=<ol><li>{Focus.Sec}<li>{Def.Sec}<li>{Relate.Sec}<li>{Misc.Sec}</ol>
 
This organization lets us put the parts that the parts that change the most in the front, the ones that the parties want to review.  It puts the ones that they least want to focus on, the ones that should be pretty common across large numbers of agreements, towards the end.

"Def" (definitions) could be put in the back with the thought that they are mostly stable.  Or it could be put in the front as often done on the theory that the meaning of words should be established in the reader's mind before they are used.  Definitions sometimes refer to established concepts and sometimes are used as parameters for the transaction.  "Price" can be defined to mean "The amount the Buyer pays the Seller."  But it can also be defined to mean the actual price, for instance, "512.94 Euros." So we put it in second position.  This is a matter for further discussion.  Everything we make is compatible with it being in any position, first, second or last.

"Relate" is a vast category.  The notion is that much of the text of most agreements is about housekeeping, things that parties with a high degree of trust and desire to stay on good terms wouldn't need to specify.  This includes Confidentiality, Notices, Assignment and myriad other provisions.  Some agreements, such as NDAs put in "Focus" provisions such as Conf, that in other agreements are part of how the partie Relate.  All the modules are written to allow moving from one place to another and have the cross-references work.  (The links work automatically.  If they are labeled by section number then that needs to be modified.)

"Misc" is a relatively small category.  This has provisions that concern the document itself, copyies, priority of Annexes and the like.  Many conventional agreements will put provisions such as Assign, Notice, etc., in Misc.  We think it cleaner to think of them as part of Relate.  But again, these provisions can be moved around and still work.


Sign -is expressed as "By."  I.e., the agreement is "by" the parties.  This includes the little sentence reciting that the agreement is by the parties and the signature block for the parties.  It can be consistent across nearly all agreements for a particular jurisdiction.


Definitions:

All "defined terms" must be parameterized.  That is:  instead of saying "the Escrow Agent will ...", you must say "the {_Escrow_Agent} will ...".  Note the format of this.  Curly braces are for all automated sections.  The leading underscore and the internal underscores.  Also the initial capital letters.  We insist on this format because it allows everyone to use a common dictionary of defined term links.  The links mean that the reader can click to go directly to the appropriate part of the Definitions section (Def.Sec).

By parameterizing defined terms, we make it easier for the reader.  The defined terms are presented in a slightly different color or font to distinguish them.  The links make it easy to look up the term.  This also helps the author and reduces some possbilities of ambiguity.  It helps the author because if they misspell a defined term, or they use a term that is not actually defined, it will immediately appear when the document is presented in Document view, or when they try to click on the term.  It can avoid some situations of ambiguity when two defined terms are one after the other in text.  Occasionally, it is hard to tell if Supplier Equipment is "Supplier" and "Equipment" or a special term.  {_Supplier} {_Equipment} might be different than {_Supplier_Equipment}.  Parameterization removes that ambiguity.


Cross-References:

Cross-references to another part of a document should be links to the referenced materials.  We do this by referencing the content of the material, not its position.  So a reference to the exceptions to confidentiality would be "except as provided in {Relate.Conf.Except.Xref}."  This means that the link will work even as the position of the section on exceptions may be moved.  There is a somewhat complex way that we organize this so that {Relate.Conf.Except.Xref} can use {Relate.Conf.Xnum} and it can use {Relate.Xnum}.  But if you do cross references as expressed, we work out the rest.


Sections:

We have consistent formats for Sections.  If you use the set of /G/Z/ widgets, then this will take care of itself.   A Section (Sec=) has a title (Ti=) and a body (sec=).  The title (Ti) is in bold and set above the text.

The section text can of course have any kind of format and organization, but the widgets make it easy to think of a section as subjections (1.Sec or 1.sec, depending on if the subsections have titles).  In addition, an introductory paragraph is 0.sec and a concluding paragraph is 00.sec.  We have standard widgets for up to about 40 subsections, and in a variety of number schemes:  1,2,3; a,b,c, i,ii,iii, etc.






   
